---
layout: post
title: Sketch Collaboration Guidelines
h1: Communicating your product roadmap
permalink: /sketch-collaboration-guidelines/
date: '2019-10-16 10:07:32'
categories: general
description: I find it isn't easy to present one visualization on its own to communicate everything you're trying to say and not create more and more questions around timelines etc.
strapline: timelines and delivery cadence often lead to very different challenges and pressures. 
---
Have any of you ever set up guidelines for collaboration in Sketch (or similar tools?) I am considering this as a way of making our Sketch files easier to collaborate on, just like coding style guides tell developers how to structure and format their code.

I have come up with a few guidelines for symbol libraries that I think could be helpful. What do you think?

Symbols
Do name your layers.
A rectangle should probably be called Background or Border.
Text layers should be renamed to "Label", "H1", or such. Don't leave the automatic layer name in. The symbol itself may retain its example text if it makes sense.
Use "Rename it" (plugin) for renaming several symbols at once.
Come up with a system of emojis for certain layers so that you can easily find them, like "🔠 Label". These emojis appear in the Sketch UI and make finding the right override easy.
Use fill styles for coloring. That enables the user to override the colors in their symbol instance.
All brand colors should be managed as layer styles.
You can use fill styles to color text as well which is often very handy. Do that by putting a rectangle atop of the text layer you want to color, select both, and intersect them.
Strictly speaking, there is no need for layer styles for borders.
Don't use artboard background colors.
Every text in your symbol should have a text style, so they can be overridden in the symbol instance.
Don't use lines. Use rectangles instead. Lines come with resizing issues and can't be colored using fill styles.
Instead of borders, you can use two rectangles subtracted from each other so they can be colored using fill styles.
Make your symbols resizable. It takes a few minutes to learn but it's an extreme time saver.
Do use the symbol layout feature. It is good. No plugins are needed anymore.
Don't rely on plugins to make changing your symbols feasible, unless everybody likes and uses that plugin.
Mind the order of layers in symbols: they should be arranged from top left to bottom right. This makes it easier to find the override when using the symbol.
Groups are often superfluous. Use them sparingly. Top-level groups in symbols are a bad sign.
If you have to create a new icon, make sure it one combined shape and the color is set through a layer style. If the icon is usually white, add a dark background color to the artboard. Make icon artboards exportable so devs can download it as an asset in Zeplin or other tools.
Come up with a consistent naming scheme.
Instances
Do name your instances.
Order your instances from top to bottom in the layer list so they are easy to find. Unfortunately, layers will often end up in the wrong order, but "sketch-automate" is a good plugin to help with that.
Instead of detaching, try to improve the symbol.








The first thing I do for collaborative  Sketch work is set up Abstract (https://www.abstract.com/), a git-based repository that allows for good version control. 

It has many other features too that largely obviate the need for Zeplin.

It also makes it really easy to manage universal symbol libraries used by multiple files. 







Oh yeah, Abstract or at least some central repo is definitely a must. Abstract comes with its own challenges though. E. g., I've worked in a team where they would use it in a way that was somehow worse than having a shared drive. But used right, Abstract is awesome!